---
layout: post
title: working around a framework
---

After an intense first week of working on a new project, I am now feeling much
more comfortable project, but reaching this point took a bit longer than I had
originally expected. One of the reasons why I had a longer than expected ramp up
was that I had to learn the quirks and domain specific language of a new
framework. While the framework was not a new programming language, it did come
with its own domain language that was a bit clunky, and was hard to follow for a
few days. In order to understand the new framework we were using, I drew the
relationships of each object and how they interacted with each other on a sheet
of paper. This greatly helped me to visualize how I could find and reference
certain objects from within the program. 

After I got fully ramped up on the project, I began to tackle more difficult
problems, and along with more difficult problems, many of the solutions to these
problems were not well documented in the framework documents. This lead me to
develop a new strategy for figuring out the more complicated framework issues,
and by using this new strategy, I was able to find some fixes that were not well
documented by the framework writers. Now when I encounter an issue, instead of first
going to the docs to look it up, I go to the framework github page and search
the repository for the object or method that is troubling me. Using this
strategy instead of just reading the docs has allowed me to uncover undocumented
default values, strange rescue values, and undocumented methods. 

Having the opportunity to work on this project has given me a great opportunity
to learn how to work with a large framework, and how to come up with elegant
solutions when working with a rigid framework. 
